Update Azure Postgres code (#2778)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/database/includes/azure-postgresql-ef-client.md

---

> The PostgreSQL connection can be consumed using the client integration and <xref:Azure.Identity>. Depending on which version Entity Framework Core you are using, the code is slightly different.

Author: ```suggestion
The PostgreSQL connection can be consumed using the client integration and <xref:Azure.Identity>. Using newer versions of Entity Framework Core can help simplify the code.
```

> ### EntityFramweork Core version 8

Author: ```suggestion
### EntityFramework Core version 8
```

```csharp
var dsBuilder = new NpgsqlDataSourceBuilder(builder.Configuration.GetConnectionString("postgresdb"));
if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(dsBuilder.ConnectionStringBuilder.Password))
{
    var credentials = new DefaultAzureCredential();
    var tokenRequest = new TokenRequestContext(["https://ossrdbms-aad.database.windows.net/.default"]);

    dsBuilder.UsePasswordProvider(
        passwordProvider: _ => credentials.GetToken(tokenRequest).Token,
        passwordProviderAsync: async (_, ct) => (await credentials.GetTokenAsync(tokenRequest, ct)).Token);
}

builder.AddNpgsqlDbContext<MyDb1Context>(
    "postgresdb",
    configureDbContextOptions: (options) => options.UseNpgsql(dsBuilder.Build()));
```

> ### EntityFramweork Core version 9

Author: ```suggestion
### EntityFramweork Core version 9+
```

---

The PostgreSQL connection can be consumed using the client integration and <xref:Azure.Identity>.

The following code snippets demonstrate how to use the <xref:Azure.Identity.DefaultAzureCredential> class from the <xref:Azure.Identity> package to authenticate with [Microsoft Entra ID](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-azure-ad-authentication) and retrieve a token to connect to the PostgreSQL database. The [UsePasswordProvider](https://www.npgsql.org/doc/api/Npgsql.NpgsqlDataSourceBuilder.html#Npgsql_NpgsqlDataSourceBuilder_UsePasswordProvider_System_Func_Npgsql_NpgsqlConnectionStringBuilder_System_String__System_Func_Npgsql_NpgsqlConnectionStringBuilder_System_Threading_CancellationToken_System_Threading_Tasks_ValueTask_System_String___) method is used to provide the token to the data source builder.

> ### EntityFramework Core version 8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### EF Core version 8
```

```csharp
var dsBuilder = new NpgsqlDataSourceBuilder(builder.Configuration.GetConnectionString("postgresdb"));
if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(dsBuilder.ConnectionStringBuilder.Password))
{
    var credentials = new DefaultAzureCredential();
    var tokenRequest = new TokenRequestContext(["https://ossrdbms-aad.database.windows.net/.default"]);

    dsBuilder.UsePasswordProvider(
        passwordProvider: _ => credentials.GetToken(tokenRequest).Token,
        passwordProviderAsync: async (_, ct) => (await credentials.GetTokenAsync(tokenRequest, ct)).Token);
}

builder.AddNpgsqlDbContext<MyDb1Context>(
    "postgresdb",
    configureDbContextOptions: (options) => options.UseNpgsql(dsBuilder.Build()));
```

> ### EntityFramework Core version 9+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### EF Core version 9+
```

> With EntityFramework Core version 9, you can use the new `ConfigureDataSource` method to configure the NpgsqlDataSourceBuilder that is used by the integration instead of building one outside of the integration and passing it in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With EF Core version 9, you can use the `ConfigureDataSource` method to configure the `NpgsqlDataSourceBuilder` that's used by the integration instead of building one outside of the integration and passing it in.
```
